---
title: Challenges in Learning Deep Learning
---

## Sections
- Section 1: Executive Summary
    - Slide: 
      - **Goal**
        - Mastering Deep Learning in Career Break
        - Oct 2022 to Oct 2023. One Year
      - **My Courses**
      - **Observations on Learning Path**
        - Very Inefficient path to mastery. Analogy of maze, lots of traversing same paths, backtracking & again traversing same paths
        - *Critical Volume of Understanding or Leaking it completely*
      - Challenges in Learning
        1. Resources: Too Many, Quality Variance, Difficulty Variance, Fragmented uncomprehensive -> Beginner 101 Level Resources
        2. Too many pre-requisites -> Just in Time Learning
        3. Fancy Hard to Understand Names, but Simple Breakthrough. Relu, batchnorm, logits, ulmit, language masked pretraining, confusion matrix
        4. DL: (Small Number of Lines, Easy to Read Code because of Python feels English, Many Libraries with comprehensive functionality). it gets memorized automatically without meaning to.
        5. Very small fundamental Concepts. *both advantage and disadvantage*. CNN, RNN, Attention, Transformer. Same things repeated everywhere, same as coding, it gets memorized without even meaning to.
        6. DL can't be understood because we don't understand intelligence (bacteria, worm, warp, fly, rat). nor ann.
          - When we talk about understanding, we mean whatever understanding we have right now. That's nothing
        7. Influencers or Students building brand
          - [well-meaning junior SME thinking themselves as Principal Architect Level]
          - [misguided & misguiding junior SMEs]
          - [influencers with low quality content]
          - [influencers with good quality content]
          - [low subscribers but good quality content]
        8. Learning Slowly or Learning too fast. (Spectrum) Learning Speed vs Quality of Understanding
        9.  No standard, easy to read & copy pastable code available to iterate with multiple competitions. lots of useless code, even its name is complex boilerplate code.
        10. Bias of domain. POV of Mathematics or POV of coder. Bias of Instructor
       - Mistakes
         - Bias of Theory over Skill
         - Should have revisited fast ai. caught in local minima.was finishing whatever
         - Fast AI course approach was good. But code wasn't easy to read. That's why I couldn't make progress. (Right Course, but wrong approach)
         - Started Coding late
         - Haven't Read papers. I can but didn't start it.
         - Haven't started competitions. I do have the knowledge 80%, but I didn't do this anyways.
         - Perfectionism or Procrastination
         - 101 Knowledge -> Immediate Mastery via Practice. -> Only then moving to advanced knowledge. (MNIST & LEAF Classification, More Complex Classification, )
         - Should have done Kaggle Competition in Kaggle learn too.
         - Theory vs Code Mistakes
    new
    - Learning from the process of drawing




- 3. Automobile Engineer -> Everyone talks about Neuron & Activation function. No matter what its same. But it doesn't mean we can fix car or drive., Mechanic, Car Driver
- (ML trainer, DE trainer, but not transferable in Deep Learning) 5. Codes are not written to be read or understood. Even though Pytorch is pythonic, and Python is Pythonic, it doesn't mean code is pythonic. Parameter names
(started learning. and got stuck) 1. Two paths. Andrew Ng + maths heavy. Top Down Jeremy Howard. Hit wall in both
- (same thing repeated in different ways increasing confusion) 4. No Standardization. Perl vs Python Philosophy... 
- 7. Jargons, Jargons. Gradient Descent, Stochastic Gradient Descent, Relu. MNIST, CIFAR, Imagenet, alexnet, vgg19, resnet. Model Parameters vs Function Parameters
Too many complex name terms, not easy to understand explainations


1. DL is blind, error minimization. It doesn't actually understand anything. 
2. DL can't be understood completely at least in our lifetime. Even though its progressing very fast, we are just building bigger models. Law Scaling or Emergence of LLM intelligence

3. Too many new papers coming constantly. I was overwhelmed. I could only understand a bit of things, and missed most things.

4.  DL is Science & Art both.. It is tough for both programmers and non programmers. 
for programmers - coding part is easy. 
for non programmers - DL concepts & programming both is hard

Through this I figured out, the need of landscape. which will help in learning. 
